### Bayesian multi-level regression poststratification (MRP) model ([Link](https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/healthandsocialcare/conditionsanddiseases/methodologies/covid19infectionsurveypilotmethodsandfurtherinformation#modelling))
A Bayesian multi-level regression post-stratification (MRP) model is used to produce our headline estimates of positivity on nose and throat swabs for each UK country as well as our breakdowns of positivity by region and age group in England. This produces estimated daily rates of people testing positive for COVID-19 controlling for a number of factors described in this section. This technique is also used by organisations such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to provide prevalence of diseases at both a national and subnational level in the United States. Details about the methodology are also provided in the peer-reviewed paper from our academic collaborators published in the [Lancet Public Health](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanpub/article/PIIS2468-2667(20)30282-6/fulltext?rss=yes&utm_campaign=update-lanpub&utm_medium=email&_hsmi=103731746&_hsenc=p2ANqtz-_1AreMqjZXMJhGO2Ct1b3-GaxPWJxCNZ8H_2KaYqD1IiUZsnad5-SqooNxGpeVxMesqrbNnf0x6y8K84C5q6z66cLn7A&utm_content=103731746&utm_source=hs_email).

As the number of people testing positive (known as the positivity rate) is unlikely to follow a linear trend, time measured in days is included in the model using a non-linear function (thin-plate spline). Time trends are allowed to vary between regions by including an interaction between region and time. Given the low number of positive cases, the effect of time is not allowed to vary by other factors.

The models for the positivity rate for each country use all available swab data from participants from their respective country within time periods to estimate the number of people who currently have SARS-CoV-2. A Bayesian multi-level generalised additive model with a complementary log-log link was used.

The COVID-19 infection survey is based on a nationally representative survey sample; however, some individuals in the original Office for National Statistics (ONS) survey samples will have dropped out and others will not have responded to the survey. To address this and reduce potential bias, the regression models initially adjusted the survey results to be more representative of the overall population in terms of age, sex and region (region was only adjusted for in the England model).

The data that are modelled are drawn from a sample, and so there is uncertainty around the estimates that the model produces. Because a Bayesian regression model was used, we present estimates along with credible intervals. These 95% credible intervals can be interpreted as there being a 95% probability that the true value being estimated lies within the credible interval. Again, a wider interval indicates more uncertainty in the estimate.
